How did you learn how to study more and how to do the grades better?
Who did you turn to for advice?
Upperclassmen are always willing to help you out.
I think everybody had sympathy for the classes that you had to take.
Everybody had taken them and knew which ones were hard.
And so people were pretty quick to help you say, you know, stay away from this teacher or go to that one.
Or here's a good person who can help you in terms of, you know, picking up your math or figuring out how to do this engineering problem or whatever it is that you wanted to do.
And as you look back, did you make, with the clarity of vision you have today, did you make any mistakes academically that first semester?
Did you fail to do some things you should have done?
No, I failed to study enough and I think everybody will tell you that.
You're finally away from your family and away from your parents a little bit and there's always a tendency to want to go run around, even though I'll say that's more controlled for freshmen in the Corps than people who aren't, but there's still a lot of horseplay that goes on and there's still a lot of tempting times and want to stay back and play some of the games or whatever they've got going on in the dorms to get away from that.
When I mean games, I mean just horsing around and horseplay.
How did you communicate with your family?
Did you write or was it email or telephone?
No, my family didn't really, didn't really use much computer so we'd call over telephone and I've never really been good at writing letters so it was just easier to call and we usually try to do that.
How often did you that first year?
I think at first I started to call them probably maybe, you know, a couple times a week.
That tapered off very quickly to once a week and once every two weeks.
And then I'd get phone calls from them saying, where are you?
But it kind of varied depending on what was going on.
And I think the more comfortable I got from being here, the more comfortable I was to not necessarily have to call all the time and stay in touch all the time.
That first semester, did you ever think about transferring, going somewhere else?
No, I never thought about transferring.
I didn't have any other place that I really thought that things would be different.
And even though things I thought were difficult the first year just from the pressures of, I don't know, trying to do your freshman duties or whatever responsibilities that would be, I still knew too many friends to walk away from that.
So I never considered transferring.
And during that first semester, do you remember going to first time going to midnight Yale practice?
I'm sure.
What was it like?
I think it was different.
I'd never seen anything like that.
I'd never been to a college football game before then.
So I can't say that I really knew what to expect.
don't think I've really appreciated a lot of that until later on when you start visiting other places and understanding other schools traditions, but no, it was different.
It was fun and everybody was always excited and so much life was centered around football weekends that there was always a lot of activity going on and IEL was a part of it.
Whatever, if there was a party at an upperclassman's house or a friend's house or something, it was usually before Midnight Yell, and you'd go over to Midnight Yell together.
So it was fun.
It was always something to look forward to.
Now, in your years, Midnight Yell practice has always been in Kyle Field.
It's always, yes, it's always been in Kyle Field.
Because see, in earlier years, it was sometimes held on the MSC steps or out, oh, my brain's gone dead.
the little area this side of the railroad that way from... You're talking about the Grove?
The Grove.
Now we have Yale practices Thursdays before the away games at the Grove.
Okay.
So we did have some Yale practices out the Grove.
Now, what did you and your buddies do after midnight?
Oh, it depends.
Some of, sometimes we'd go home, and depending on what time the game was in the morning, some of us would go home, and some of us, especially the freshman year, it was the only time we got out of the dorm, so we didn't come back until we were forced to have to come back, and, you know, it was fun, so it just kind of varied.
And what was your routine on a Saturday home game?
Describe that day those were always busy busy.
I mean there were if there were their outfit barbecues or Parents were coming in so there was always always mornings were spent cleaning up the dorms and cleaning up the the quad and cleaning up just different different things around the area and Sometimes you had the sometimes your outfit had the responsibility
Having to leave early in the morning to go put up the flags in Kyle Field, so some of us would do that.
Always had to hang.
We kind of changed.
At first we used to have outfit signs that we used to put, not outfit signs, but the kind of home football weekend banners that used to be out, we'd hang outside the dorms.
But then I guess it got a little too rough, I guess, for some people's taste, and so they made us stop taking them down, and so then we had to start putting up the flags.
I think the Commandant's Office bought, I'm not sure how large these flags are, but they hang from top to bottom of the dorm.
Then we used to put those up, so it changed while I was there.
Once we got done with that, there was, then it was time to get ready to do football weekend activities, core marching, and came back from marching, then went to the football game, and after that there was always things to do.
How often did you have a date that first fall?
Oh, I don't think I really had a date at all that fall, and that was okay.
So a lot of times we just sat together with all our buddies from my freshman class, and that was fun.
And after the game where?
It kind of just depends.
Sometimes there was always a couple of people who had brothers or sisters at A&M, and so we'd go to their house sometimes and cook some barbecue or do something like that.
Other times we had two of our buddies, they were from College Station, so we'd go out there and parents would help cook stuff and we'd do that.
And your first silver taps, what was that like?
It was interesting.
I can't say I'd ever seen anything like it before, and I don't think the first time I really went there I really knew what in the world was going on, because there's always a lot of people the first time, the first weekend you come back, and so I couldn't really see anything.
You could hear it, but you couldn't necessarily see it.
And I think it was neat.
It was special to see that there was a tradition like that, and I think it was important.
Did you get the impression that everybody that attended took it seriously?
Oh yes, I've never seen anybody that hasn't taken it seriously.
Sometimes people worry about the numbers declining at the end of the semester.
I think some of that's understandable.
I'm not sure if that's really a problem, but nobody's ever disrespected it necessarily.
I think there was one time where there were people yelling some things at the dorm.
That was only one time in five years that I can recall, so I can't really say that I ever think that was a problem.
Have you ever had silver taps for someone you knew quite well?
More recently than when I first came into A&M.
And I think that's because you know more people leaving than you do when you come in.
So that's certainly changed, but not starting off anyway.
Let's see, core trip?
Are there still core trips?
Yes, there sure are.
Where'd y'all go that first year?
Oh, I don't know.
I'm trying to remember where we went the first year.
Austin?
Well, I think the first year.
Houston?
First year we probably went to Austin.
because we used to go to Baylor the following year and then Austin.
So we'd flip-flop years, Austin and then Baylor.
Sometimes it changed.
I remember one year we played UNT or University of North Texas up in the Cowboy Stadium or Urban Stadium up in Dallas.
So I remember one of our core trips was up there and then we had a parade in Fort Worth.
So it's been different.
We've never gone to Houston.
We've never done one in Houston.
But now that they've switched conferences on us, now we have both core trips in the same year and then none the next.
So I think they're trying to figure out how to do that.
I hadn't thought of that.
Because now our closest home game or our closest away game is Texas Tech.
And that's a long drive.
So we haven't really figured out how to do that.
And I know they're trying to work on that, but I'm not sure what will happen from here.
Did you ever have, in any of your core trip,
Did you ever have any negative experiences with someone in that town?
Did anybody ever do anything that was inappropriate, trying to do anything to the Corps as it was marching?
Most towns were pretty good about it.
Most towns were really receptive and were very positive.
I can't really recall that people were negative, except when you went to Austin.
And then when you went to Austin, some people were either really good about it or really bad about it.
So you just kind of took the good with the bad.
And I think that really kind of heightens the rivalry.
If you don't have any hard feelings before you go to Austin, you usually do when you leave.
Let's see, first semester you said your grades weren't as high as you'd like.
Right.
But you passed everything.
Oh, right.
Didn't fail anything.
Right.
And political science was your major by then.
And how did you feel at the end of that first semester?
I was proud and glad that I'd done it through.
And there was a, everybody talks a lot about the activities in the spring.
So, you know, I think there was a lot to look forward to, although I wasn't ready to have a month off and then go back to the same routine again.
What does a student do now with a month off?
What did you do with that time?
Oh, I don't know.
I don't know, I've never really taken the full vacation, so I, you know, I'm not sure what everybody does.
I know most people go home and just spend time with family, but, or some people get jobs, you know, they work over the holidays and help pay for some of their school.
But most of the time I came back early to do activities with the Corps, so I never really spent an entire vacation, you know, at home.
Most of it was coming back early.
When did you first begin to get involved in what I'd call leadership activities?
I guess probably not until late sophomore year and it was more involvement than leadership activities and that was doing some trying to be a counselor with fish camp.
I was
I was the guide on bear for K-1 my sophomore year, which I guess you could consider that a leadership position, but it's also really not because you're really not in charge of anything.
It's really more you're really just kind of expected to do a little bit more, but it's not really necessarily leadership.
Although there's a strong correlation I think a lot of times with people usually in those positions usually wind up doing something, but not necessarily.
Yeah, when your freshman year is over, did you feel good as you look back on it, Phil?
You were headed in the upper direction?
Well, I don't know where I was really headed at the end of my freshman year.
I really had no idea.
I think that's a good year just because there's so much positive atmosphere surrounding that time period.
I mean, it's just a really motivational time as a freshman.
I don't know outside the Corps.
I can't really tell you that.
You know, inside you finish a hard year and, you know, you finish it off with Parents Weekend and Final Review and Muster and things like that.
So it's really kind of a climatic time and I think the motivation's really high at that point.
Did family come for Parents Weekend?
Sure, sure.
See, now 40 years ago that wouldn't have.
That wouldn't have happened with many people.
Then that summer, what did you do into your freshman year?
I went to do an internship in New York, so I, that's what I did.
How did you land that?
My family, well, my mom's side of the family is originally from New York, so I went to go work for a congresswoman up there.
Was that a good experience?
No, I think it was a great experience.
I enjoyed it.
I mean, I miss being here in Texas, but it was a good experience.
Okay.
You come back as a sophomore.
How is being a sophomore different from being a freshman?
Oh, I don't know.
I thought it was a lot different until I got there and realized it's really not that much.
You're pretty much a glorified freshman.
Well, but it's different in the fact that, you know, you do have to be more responsible and you do have to, you know, help teach people.
On the other end, you're kind of just on the receiving end.
But it's a challenge.
You have to learn to do a little bit more, and it's tough learning to teach people how to do things versus teaching one person yourself, so it's more complicated.
Did you have any favorite things you did with the fish in your outfit?
Oh, you know, most of the time it was pretty typical.
I don't think I did anything outside the ordinary.
There were every now and then there were, but I think we had one.
One thing, I can't say it was necessarily legal, but I used to have a deck of cards, and since there were four different suits, I used to have four different exercises, and we'd go through with the number of repetitions they had on the number of the card you pulled up, and you keep going through that until you finish the deck.
There weren't any breaks, and jokers were wild, so jokers were a class set of whatever their favorite choice was.
Was there more time for study as a sophomore?
I think there was probably more time for studying, but you also usually goofed off a lot more than you did as a freshman, too, so it equaled out.
And by that time, where did you, where were you and your buddies going for a good time on a Friday night or a Saturday night?
I think probably on the weekends.
Spent a lot more time either going to, I think we went to a few of the local bars or whatever.
Went up to Northgate a little bit more, the Dixie Chicken and the places like that.
Usually new friends that you could go over, they were having something at their house.
We spent a lot more time doing that because you knew more people.
We knew a little bit more activities going on campus.
So whereas freshmen here, I think most of the time we usually maybe found one place that we would go and that would be it.
I asked this out of naivety.
What are the wildest places in Bryan College Station that Aggies may visit?
You know, that's a good question because I don't really know if there's a lot of wild places.
I mean, I guess in some ways this is a really conservative town, in some ways it isn't.
But really, I really can't think.
There's a bar in Northgate in the corner next to the Hollicks, and it's changed names about five different times.
And that's been about the trendiest place, and it's never picked up.
That's why it keeps changing names every time.
And so I think that would probably be the weirdest one.
Probably a little bit more typical of a place you'd find in a big city, although certainly not the quality.
I think Barracuda Bar maybe, that's changed.
It's definitely different, but I find most people would rather just go and have something at their house, rather throw some sort of activity at their house.
Now, Aggies don't go to those bars way up at Highway 21 and Texas Avenue in North Bryan, do they, where the truckers go?
No, not really.
Most people, I think most people can find themselves to kind of this area.
I guess there are a few places, but they're really, I can't say most people usually go to them in Bryan.
I guess there's two places in Bryan that some people go to.
One's called the Blarney Stone, and the other is the Tap, or not the Tap, the other is Kearney's.
But I think that's the only two places that people tend to really go to in Bryan.
When did you become aware of the MSC's variety of activity organizations?
Probably not until a lot later because that's never where I was really involved.
I knew that they had a lot going on there, but I couldn't really tell you what.
I can't say it was really until probably later in my college career that I really, really fully understood what was going on in the MSC.
As, by the time you're, say, a sophomore to junior,
Describe the A&M student body in general.
What was their basic attitude, liberal, conservative?
Where were they from?
Describe typical Aggies.
I think most people regionally are from the Houston or Dallas area.
I mean, most people tend to come from those places.
If you were to ask what school they went to, it would be somewhere in that area.
That doesn't mean that people weren't from other locations, but typically, I mean, I don't think I'd be going out on a limb at saying probably half our student body is from one of those two towns.
So I think you tend to find a lot more conservativeness in the students.
I mean, you know, you can sit here being at the school, you might say there's obviously extremes at both ends, but if you were to take our campus and compare it to other campuses, I'd say it was probably much more conservative on the whole.
And by and large, are they from working class, middle class, upper class family backgrounds?
I think it's varied.
You know, there are certainly people who come from very well families, and certainly that's not a surprise.
But, you know, I think a lot of people are middle class.
I think they probably fall in that middle class category.
But I can't say it's unusual to find somebody who's putting themselves through school either.
And it's not looked down upon or anything like that either.
So, you know, it's a mixed bag, but I think most people probably fit in that middle category versus the other two ends.
And are people of different religious, national, ethnic backgrounds, were they accepted as far as you know?
Well, I think so, but this is also, I think, a time where people are really, well, I shouldn't say this is a time where they're really pushing diversity issues, because it's been something they've been pushing in different forms or different aspects for a long time.
But they're just continuing that.
I think it's a lot better, but I guess there are some people that still think it's not.
It still needs to be improved and still needs to be built upon.
So there's work to do that, and it's different.
I think you find grad students are well into the majority or Asian in descent, well over 50%.
I think it's probably somewhere in 85-90% range.
And then when you get the undergraduate level, it's, you know, it's still predominantly, I think, white, but Texas is also becoming majority Hispanic, so there's a lot more Hispanic.
So it's mixed.
And in the Corps, everybody's accepted, aren't they?
I never thought about it.
I think I've dealt with more of that this last year than I've dealt with diversity issues while I was in the Corps.
We never judge anybody really on color or anything like that.
It was really more physical ability.
So I don't really ever recall getting into a discussion about that while in the Corps.
I just never really noticed that.
I think even though integration's been around for
I guess almost 30 years at this point in the Corps, that's more of an issue than diversity.
Women being in male outfits is more of an issue than what nationality or race you're from.
There never, on the first day with the Corps, there was never any problem over race.
Never, never.
Fred McClure, he got 92% of the vote when he ran for student body president.
And the fact he was black, so?
And that's the way I've seen it.
That's why I think it was strange that it's been a big adjustment for me this year being outside the Corps, dealing with that a lot more than it was inside.
In your era, do you think the Corps as a group is more inclusive than the non-Corps students?
I think as a group, yes.
I mean, there's discussions about how, you know, inclusive is the core to other organizations.
And I don't know the answer to that, really.
But if you're in the core, I think the core is pretty inclusive.
And what about religious affiliation?
Jewish, Catholic, Protestant?
I get into the same thing.
Once again, I can't really ever...
ever really remember getting into that.
Now, being that this is a little bit more of a Christian kind of atmosphere down here, you do see a lot of it.
I know it's pretty heavily Baptist, so you see a lot more of that.
I guess if you had to put race versus religion, I think you would see a lot more of the religion than you would the race by far.
But even then, I can't say that I've
That's ever really been a thing.
If anything, Sundays were, you know, if you were going to church, sometimes people would go together to church on Sundays, but if you weren't Christian, I can't ever recall anybody ever thinking about that.
Did you, in your first years here, did you attend some worship activities here?
Yeah, a lot of us went to church together.
I'm Catholic, but I go to St.
Mary's, and a lot of us went to St.
Mary's.
And were students welcomed warmly at St.
Mary's?
Oh, yes, very much so.
I mean, the church was very much majority students, so a lot of things were centered around that.
So, no, it was very exciting.
And in the Corps or anywhere else on the student on this campus, the fact you were Catholic, was that ever a plus or a minus?
No, I don't think it was really, I don't think anybody ever really made a concern about it.
I mean, you went together with the people that obviously went to church with you.
In your Corps outfit, was there religious variety?
Oh, yes.
There was definitely a religious variety.
And not just different denominations, you know, being Baptist or Methodist or Catholic or anything like that.
I mean, there were Jewish and Hindu and different things like that.
So, no, I think it was never an issue.
Now, no longer do Corps members have nicknames.
Well, yes and no.
Some people don't.
I guess it depends on the outfits you're in.
Some outfits tend to pride themselves on that a little bit more.
Not as nothing to the degree that it used to be, that's for sure.
But nicknames, I can't say, are uncommon, though, either.
See, 50 years ago, it was common to give somebody a nickname by something that was distinctive about them so that the Jewish students would sometimes be nicknamed Jew Boy.
But it was not a put down.
It was an identifier.
Like another one was fats or somebody else was red or rusty.
But somebody today reading that
might think that it was a put down, but it wasn't.
Well, there are nicknames that still, like I said, some people sign nicknames today.
And I'm not going to say that, I mean, a lot of them are still similar.
I mean, we used to have, I think we used to have one of our guys, his name was Boog.
I'm not really sure exactly how that really came about.
Another guy, we had another guy whose name was Fatty.
But we never, but once again, I don't think it was ever, it was more, I don't know.
Some of these things just stuck and I never thought about it.
Among the people that you knew best in the Corps or anybody else, what do you think, in general, was their opinion about women being members of the Corps today?
Well, it depends on what outfits you talk to.
The ones that are integrated tend to be okay with it.
When I say integrated, I mean really fully integrated.
If you're talking about an outfit that's got one or two females in it, it usually tends to still be a lot of frustration there.
But if they're an outfit that's really typically had a lot of women, the band has had a lot of women, they don't think it's not really an issue over there very much.
But then if you get to the ones that are all male, it's very much an issue.
So it kind of just, it varies.
It depends on who you're talking to.
If you were advising the leaders of the Corps, what would be the minimum percentage you think an outfit ought to have as female?
That's a good question because we've struggled to find that answer out, and I don't know if I have it.
I don't think just having three or four or something like that's the right answer.
If you're going to do it, do it right.
And I can't say I'm against integration either.
It's just one of those things that I think that
If you're really going to be effective, I mean, you really need enough to guarantee that they'll be in some leadership positions.
You need enough to guarantee that they're at least representative in each class.
So, and those things are tough to come by.
I think it's in the band where it's a lot more common.
I mean, I think almost half the females are in the band that exist in the core.
So, you know, is it as big of a deal in the band?
No, but percentages change once you get outside the band.
And are there many black women, have there been many black women in the Corps?
No, not many.
I mean there's been a few, but I'd say probably a much smaller percentage.
What about international members?
Well, there's been quite a few international members.
I mean, sometimes it's tough to tell that.
I mean, you can't just look down and know whether somebody's from a different country or not.
But certainly we come across, you know, my fair share of different people from different countries.
Let's see.
We were talking about religion a while ago.
You went to worship service at St.
Mary's.
Were there any religious organizations on campus that you were a part of ever?
No, I can't say I really went anything.
I mean, there is a breakaway on campus where they, it's not denominational, I guess.
I don't know if there's a particular denomination that kind of hosts that and funds that.
But sometimes I go to that.
And that was, it started off campus.
It started at Central Baptist and Bryan.
And it's since grown pretty large that it's on campus.
But I haven't gone to that recently.
Went to it a few times when it was smaller.
But now it's a little too big for me to really want to go.
And two, I've gotten busier as I've gotten older too.
Did you feel comfortable as a Catholic attending those services?
Oh yeah, that wasn't a problem.
But then I think almost every church has some sort of student organization on campus.
So if you wanted to be active in that, you could.
As you, in those first couple of years, what did you see as the most respected or admired student leader positions?
Well, I don't know.
That's a good question.
I've seen it when I wasn't in some of those and I've seen it when I am in some of those and I don't know the answer to the question either way.
The grass is always greener on the other side, so I don't really know.
I think everybody always respects the Yale leaders just because the other thing is they're not really in a position to have to make a decision.
They just get to have fun.
That's really the bottom line.
They get to enjoy themselves and have a good time with it.
In a lot of ways, I think that's probably the most idealized one.
You get to be a center of attention and not really that much responsibility.
There's a lot of work to it, but the responsibility level isn't necessarily as high.
So I think that's one that people tend to really, really want to be a part of.
And then it changes from there.
Then it gets more, a lot more.
I mean, you can talk about student body president, but I don't know.
That's varied.
I mean, there's a lot of people that are voting, but I guess it's tough for me to be objective about that being in that role.
That's tough for me to really evaluate that.
But then when you start getting into the MSC or the Corps of Cadets or in the Greek life or something like that, you know, clearly they're obviously those top positions in those organizations are always aspired to be because it's much more centered around that organization.
Now, how active were the Greek organizations in recruiting freshman year?
Oh, they've been increasing every year.
I can't say they've really been very active.
When I came in here in 96, I mean, I think all Greek organizations total were about the size of the Corps.
And they're not, they have not been very organized.
So it's really kind of, for lack of a better term, loose confederacy out there.
And since I've been here, they've certainly gotten a lot more organized and are starting to do a lot more activities.
And I think that some of that is reflective of the fact that we're getting ready to, not yet, but getting ready to get into a second generation, possibly some Greek, you know, where their sons and daughters could have been in a fraternity or sorority here.
And we're not quite at that point, but you're starting to see us getting closer to that.
So I think that's probably reflective of that.
Did you ever think about joining?
No, that's not really what I want to do.
I think the Corps is very much a fraternity.
Even though it's a military organization, it's still very, very fraternal.
And to me, that was good for me.
Trivia information for you.
We have a higher percentage per capita of fraternity and sorority members than UT does.
Right.
At Austin, 5% of the male undergraduate, 6% of the female.
Here it's 6 and 14.
More than twice as many of our women are in sororities as there.
Well, that doesn't surprise me though either.
Did you ever hear of any secret fraternities here?
Well, there's rumors, but I can't say that I really know much about it.
And I don't know.
There's so many organizations now at this point that it's hard to really keep up with what's rumor, what's fact.
I don't know.
When did you get involved with student government?
Not until junior year.
The muster committee was a part of student government.
I think it's always been a part of student government.
Well, I say that cautiously, but still I think it's been organized under that umbrella since the late 70s.
And so I got involved in that committee and was a part of that.
This is to plan the campus muster.
That's correct.
But other than that, I haven't really done much with student government.
Other than that, that was when I first got involved.
How do you go from there to what you've just retired from?
Well, that's a good question.
That's not the first time I've had that asked.
There's a lot more to do in this job than necessarily understanding all the dynamic aspects of student government.
And I'll be honest with you, when you look at the typical student body presence, I can't, at least in the last decade, I know that's certainly changed over the years.
But they come from a lot of different places.
The one before me was from the MSB.